


BIBLICAL LANGUAGES                                       FMTPX(1)



NAME
     fmtpx - reformat a PX-file

SYNOPSIS
     fmtpx [-prtvw] [-i indent] [-o output] file...

DESCRIPTION
     fmtpx reformats a PX(5) file and optionally reconstructs  it
     recalculating  and renumbering the hierarchies of the clause
     atoms and the linguistic units.  The  program  will  combine
     the  contents  of the files named on the command line into a
     single output file.  The result is written  to  stdout,  but
     can be directed to a file by the -o option.

     When reconstructing, as indicated with the  -r  option,  the
     program  operates  in  phases.   It will proceed to the next
     phase only if  the  previous  phase  was  completed  without
     errors.   First  it  will parse the PX(5) file and construct
     the hierarchies of  the  clause  atoms  and  the  linguistic
     units.   If  the  input  is  correct,  it  will  process the
     phrases, the clause constituent relations,  and  the  clause
     atom  boundaries.   It  will  then  proceed  to recreate the
     clause atom hierarchy and the tree of linguistic units.  The
     instructions,   consisting   of   the  two-character  string
     representing the status of the clause atom followed  by  its
     indentation,  together  with  the clause and sentence number
     are the initial data on which the recalculation is based and
     from  which  all values are derived.  The type of the clause
     atom relations, however, is  copied  and  not  recalculated,
     because  it  is  language-specific.  If the hierarchy can be
     recreated without errors, the resulting PX(5) file is  writ-
     ten.

OPTIONS
     -i indent
          The indent used in displaying the tree requested by the
          -v option.  The default is 3.

     -o output
          Write the result to output in stead of stdout.

     -p   Paragraph scope.  This option is accepted, but ignored.
          It  has  become  obsolete  with the introduction of the
          concept of text segments to the program.

     -r   Recalculate and renumber the hierarchies of the  clause
          atoms and the linguistic units.

     -t   Traditional.  Adopt a format  compatible  with  earlier
          versions of syn04types(1).  Accept ambiguous (overflow-
          ing) paragraph numbers and, in doing so, a result  that
          may not be reproducible.  Furthermore, in the input, an



Werkgroep Informatica Last change: 14/03/20                     1






BIBLICAL LANGUAGES                                       FMTPX(1)



          instruction `N' is implied at the first clause atom  at
          indentation  0.   In  the output, the sentences are not
          numbered within the  paragraph,  but  absolutely.   The
          Text  Type  labels  are  padded  with spaces to a fixed
          width of seven character positions.

     -v   Verbose.  Display the recalculated tree  of  linguistic
          units and their atoms on stderr.

     -w   Warn.  Treat errors as warnings where possible.

EXIT STATUS
     If no errors are encountered,  fmtpx  returns  a  zero  exit
     status  to  the  calling environment.  On error, it prints a
     message on stderr and exits with a non-zero exit status.

SEE ALSO
     PX(5), syn04types(1).

DIAGNOSTICS
     `Input in wrong format. No output produced.'
          The input file could not be read properly,  because  it
          did  not  adhere  to  the  format of a PX(5) file.  The
          reformatting is abandoned.

     `Input inconsistent. No output produced.'
          During the recalculation  of  the  hierarchies,  errors
          were found in the data.  No PX(5) file is written.

     `Input incorrect. No further processing.'
          The input file could not be processed properly,  either
          because  it  did  not  adhere  to the format of a PX(5)
          file, or because it contained too serious  inconsisten-
          cies.  No reconstruction is attempted.

     `a proleptic ellips requires a daughter in the same sentence'
          The instruction `p' was found on a clause atom that did
          not have a daughter as the main clause within the  sen-
          tence.

     `abandoned vocative'
          A vocative was found  with  a  daughter  that  lacks  a
          clause constituent relation with the vocative.

     `an extraposition requires a downward connection'
          An extraposition was found which is  not  connected  to
          the main clause in which it is a constituent.

     `clause atom hierarchy implies virtual mother'
          The clause atom hierarchy contains  or  implies  clause
          atom relations with a mother outside the text contained
          in the file.



Werkgroep Informatica Last change: 14/03/20                     2






BIBLICAL LANGUAGES                                       FMTPX(1)



     `clause broken up by tabs'
          The clause numbering is contradicted by  the  tab  set-
          tings.   This  can happen when a zero tab without rela-
          tion starts a new segment in the gap within a  compound
          clause.

     `clause atom type in conflict with clause type'
          In a clause atom without a predicate, the  clause  atom
          type label does not agree with the clause type number.

     `clause constituent relation missing'
          A dependent clause with a predication  needs  a  clause
          constituent  relation  in  order to be part of the sen-
          tence.

     `clause constituent relation on main clause'
          The main clause of the sentence should be the mother of
          the clause constituent relations, not a daughter.

     `clause type in conflict with clause atom type'
          In a clause without a predicate, the clause type number
          does  not  agree with the clause atom type label of its
          primary clause atom.

     `conflict with clause atom relation'
          The target of the clause constituent relation does  not
          lie  within  the  mother clause atom of the clause atom
          carrying the clause constituent relation.

     `daughter claims to be her own mother'
          In a phrase atom relation or clause  constituent  rela-
          tion, the distance code points to a position within the
          daughter herself.

     `departs from <type> at line <number>'
          In a compound clause, the value for clause type or text
          type  is  not  repeated  properly  on the matching star
          line.

     `distance missing'
          A phrase atom relation requires a distance code.

     `downward connection inside a clause'
          A downward connection should connect two  clause  atoms
          of  different  clauses,  not the clause atoms of a com-
          pound clause.

     `expected `:' in place of `?''
          An unexpected character was used as  separator  on  the
          star line.  The parsing continues.

     `mother not in this <unit>'



Werkgroep Informatica Last change: 14/03/20                     3






BIBLICAL LANGUAGES                                       FMTPX(1)



          In a phrase atom relation or clause  constituent  rela-
          tion,  the  distance  code points to a position outside
          the surrounding clause or sentence.

     `need exactly one primary atom'
          A clause or  sentence  was  found  that  did  not  have
          exactly one atom with a relation outside the unit.

     `need exactly two subtypes'
          The string representing the status of the  clause  atom
          did not consist of exactly two characters, which is the
          de facto standard at present.

     `not a simple clause'
          A compound clause was labelled as macrosyntactic sign.

     `not properly resumed'
          The clause atom marked casus  pendens  lacks  a  clause
          atom  relation  in the same sentence with the head of a
          clause that has a resumptive clause  constituent  rela-
          tion to the casus pendens clause.

     `not the first clause atom of this clause'
          In the PX(5) format, the clause constituent relation of
          a  compound  clause is recorded only once, at the first
          clause atom of the clause.

     `not the first clause of the sentence'
          A clause marked casus pendens was not the first of  the
          sentence.

     `not the main clause of the sentence'
          A clause marked macrosyntactic sign was  not  the  main
          clause of the sentence.

     `orphaned <type>'
          An  ellipsis  or  extraposition  was  found  without  a
          mother.

     `paragraph 11 taken as 1.1'
          An ambiguous paragraph  number  was  encountered.   The
          interpretation   closest  to  the  preceding  paragraph
          number is taken.  In the traditional format,  paragraph
          numbers may overflow and become ambiguous.

     `paragraph number overflow'
          The PX(5) format allows for a  maximum  of  nine  para-
          graphs  per  segment  and  nine subparagraphs per para-
          graph.  Beyond this limit, paragraph numbers are  ambi-
          guous.

     `partial clause atom'



Werkgroep Informatica Last change: 14/03/20                     4






BIBLICAL LANGUAGES                                       FMTPX(1)



          A star line was found in the middle of a  clause  atom.
          This  happens  when  the  clause numbering ascribes two
          consecutive clause atoms to the same clause.

     `phrase broken up by tabs'
          The phrase numbering is contradicted by  the  tab  set-
          tings.   This  can happen when a zero tab without rela-
          tion starts a new segment in the gap within a  compound
          phrase.

     `points out of the text'
          In a phrase atom relation or clause  constituent  rela-
          tion,  the  distance  code points to a position outside
          the text.

     `requires a distance in clause atoms'
          A resumption or a  continuation  of  the  vocative  was
          found with a distance other than in clause atoms.

     `requires a reopening or a casus pendens as mother'
          A resumption was found with a mother other than a  reo-
          pened or a casus pendens clause.

     `requires a vocative clause as mother'
          A continuation of the vocative was found with a  mother
          other than a vocative clause.

     `sentence does not connect to a primary atom'
          A clause atom that opens a sentence should  connect  to
          the primary clause atom of the clause it connects to.

     `status in conflict with clause atom type'
          In a clause without a predicate, the status  attributed
          to  the  clause by the instructions does not agree with
          the label assigning the clause atom type.

     `tab 0: status `\' ignored'
          An attempt was made at a downward connection at  inden-
          tation 0.  The downward direction is ignored.

     `unnatural mother'
          The mother of an ellipsis or extraposition is not in  a
          different clause within the same sentence.

     `use `lp' for an ellipsis that precedes the predicate'
          A downward connection was found on  an  ellipsis.   The
          instruction  `p'  has  been  introduced to handle these
          cases, in which a proleptic ellipsis precedes the  main
          clause with the predicate.

BUGS
     Since  fmtpx  makes  two  passes  over  the  input  when  it



Werkgroep Informatica Last change: 14/03/20                     5






BIBLICAL LANGUAGES                                       FMTPX(1)



     recalculates  the  hierarchies,  it  may  produce  incorrect
     results if one of its input files is changed by another pro-
     cess during its operation.




















































Werkgroep Informatica Last change: 14/03/20                     6



