


CALAP                                                  PIL2WIT(1)



NAME
     pil2wit - convert PIL running text to graphic text

SYNOPSIS
     pil2wit [-lsv] [-m siglum] [-o output] [-t language]  file
     ...

DESCRIPTION
     pil2wit converts  a  running  text  in  the  format  of  the
     Peshitta  Institute Leiden into a graphic text in the format
     specified by gt(5).  It writes its  output  to  stdout,  but
     this can be changed by the -o option.

     The input file is stripped of its comments and its  transli-
     teration is adapted to the one that is in use with the Werk-
     groep  Informatica.   By  default,  textual  variations  are
     resolved but not followed.

OPTIONS
     -l   Labels.  Also check whether the verse labels  are  con-
          sistent and consecutive.

     -m siglum
          Manuscript.   In   textual   variations,   follow   the
          manuscript  with this siglum.  This option can be given
          more than once, in which case the variant  is  followed
          when any one of the sigla is listed with the variant.

     -o output
          Output.  Write the result to the file output.

     -s   Strict substitutions.  Do not allow substitutions  that
          affect text from a preceding variant.

     -t language
          Taal.  Use language in the language  directive,  rather
          than  `syriac',  which  is  the default.  Syriac is the
          default language in order to maintain backward compati-
          bility  with earlier versions which did not have the -t
          option.

     -v   Verbose.  It lists the file names  and  selected  sigla
          while  it  processes the files.  At the end of the run,
          the set  of  sigla  used  in  the  texts  is  reported,
          together with an error count.

EXIT STATUS
     Exits with a non-zero status in case of errors, among  which
     format errors in the input file.

SEE ALSO
     gt(5)



Werkgroep Informatica Last change: 05/08/25                     1






CALAP                                                  PIL2WIT(1)



     H. J. Bosman and C. J. Sikkel, Format of A PIL Running  Text
     which is part of the CALAP documentation.





















































Werkgroep Informatica Last change: 05/08/25                     2



