


BIBLICAL LANGUAGES                                       AT2PS(1)



NAME
     at2ps - create a ps-file from analysed text

SYNOPSIS
     at2ps [-iv] [-c conf] [-d dump] [-o ps] [-t ct] [at...]

DESCRIPTION
     at2ps reads one or more analysed text files as described  in
     at(5),  and  a collection of linguistic data files for every
     language in its input.  It calculates the lexical  and  mor-
     phological features of the words in the text using the rules
     laid out in the word_grammar(5) file.

     The results are written to a ps-file, the format of which is
     defined in a psdef(5) file for each language.

     The default output format is that of a ps2(5)  file.   at2ps
     can  be  configured  to  produce  ps-files in one of various
     other formats by using a modified psdef(5) file.

     When applying the rules from  the  word  grammar,  it  first
     processes  the rule section on inflection, and then the sec-
     tion on derivation.  Although both  of  these  sections  are
     optional,  the  presence  of  a possibly empty section has a
     meaning.  If a rule section is completed successfully,  i.e.
     no reject occurred, the lexically determined function values
     are assigned to the word.  These function values  are  gath-
     ered  from  the lexicon that is listed in the grammar as the
     repository for the cores.  These  assignments  are  made  in
     reverse  order,  i.e.  a  lexeme  determined  function value
     replaces a root determined value.

     With respect to identifying  input  and  output  files,  two
     modes  exist:  normal mode and compatibility mode.  Compati-
     bility mode is used to imitate the behaviour of  a  previous
     version  of  at2ps,  which  is  still  presupposed  by  some
     scripts.  The program will determine itself the correct mode
     in  which  to  run.  Input and output are then identified as
     follows.

  Normal Mode
     The input file names are taken from the command line.  If no
     input files are specified, at2ps will read from stdin.

     The output file is specified by the -o option.  If -o is not
     used, at2ps will write to stdout.

  Compatibility Mode
     This mode is activated by the existence of a  synnr(5)  file
     in the current directory, which contains the stage number of
     the analysis (must be 0) and the name of the  at-file.   The
     output   files  are  named  after  this  at-file,  with  the



Werkgroep Informatica Last change: 03/11/20                     1






BIBLICAL LANGUAGES                                       AT2PS(1)



     extensions `ps2' and `ct'.  In compatibility mode at2ps mim-
     ics  the  behaviour  of  syn01(1)  and  syn02(1) and updates
     `synnr' by increasing the stage number to 2.

     Compatibility mode is entered only if `synnr' exists and  no
     options  other  than  a possible -d are given on the command
     line.  In any other case, at2ps will run in normal mode.

OPTIONS
     -c file
          Use the configuration specified in  file,  rather  than
          the          default          configuration          in
          /projects/calap/etc/at2ps.conf.   Use  of  this  option
          implies normal mode.

     -d file
          Dump.  A human readable copy of the analysis is written
          to file.

     -i   Ignore `synnr', force normal mode.

     -o ps
          Write the columnal output to ps.  Use  of  this  option
          implies normal mode.

     -t ct
          Write a copy of the surface  text  in  its  traditional
          form to ct.  Use of this option implies normal mode.

     -v   Verbose.

EXIT STATUS
     If no errors are encountered,  at2ps  returns  a  zero  exit
     status  to  the  calling environment.  On error, it prints a
     message on stderr and exits with a non-zero exit status.

FILES
     /projects/calap/etc/at2ps.compat
          Configuration file for compatibility mode.  The  confi-
          guration  file determines which alphabet, lexicon, word
          grammar, and ps-file definition are used for the  vari-
          ous languages.  See at2ps.conf(5),

     /projects/calap/etc/at2ps.conf
          Default configuration file.

     synnr
          Stage file, used only in compatibility mode.

SEE ALSO
     alphabet(5),  at(5),  at2ps.conf(5),   lexicon(5),   ps2(5),
     psdef(5), syn01(1), syn02(1), synnr(5), word_grammar(5).



Werkgroep Informatica Last change: 03/11/20                     2






BIBLICAL LANGUAGES                                       AT2PS(1)



NOTES
     at2ps replaces the programs  syn01(1)  and  syn02(1),  which
     cannot handle analysed texts in at(5) format.




















































Werkgroep Informatica Last change: 03/11/20                     3



